these pads help a lion to move quietly
and stealthily in its pursuit of a kill
and hidden within the software of the
foot are razor-sharp 38 millimeter long
killer claws but they retract the
ability to retract the claws helps keep
them razor sharp but also stops her
hurting her cubs when she plays with
them however the trainees must not
forget the scientific significance of
this exercise for Layla and for the new
reserve up in Sarah but that's a
fantastic experience richer and I think
it really brings home the importance of
Ranger training getting the collars on
these things and establishing what their
what their bounds are across the
countryside we do have to manage the
situation it is a relatively small area
and it does need a hands-on approach
also at Sarah it emphasizes the
importance of building the herds up
there so that predators can come back
that's right and the cycle you can go on
yeah absolutely you're right you need to
build up the plains game and the food
for predators before bringing any
predators but we know that they're there
in small groups but we also know that
herbivores are there and in small
numbers yeah the first stage repopulate
with herbivores and the Predators will
bounce back very quickly right and it's
time for this beautiful lioness to
bounce back from her slumber as richard
injects her with the antidote the CI
ears are twitching now she's she'll be
up in about here
just putting her in the shade so that
she doesn't get too hard what are we
waiting for the antidote to work cow
come it's time to move out the pride are
growing increasingly restless and are
getting too close for comfort
our lioness will be fully recovered
within minutes and she won't be in the
best of moods
alright guys she's coming around let's
go it's been a brilliant day down in
labor for Kenan ease trainees and it's
been an invaluable experience for the
Samburu Rangers who will soon run the
new eco lodge and gain reserve of
nasarah and it's here that carry Tim and
barrier putting the finishing touches to
their all-important waterhole which we
hope will draw in wild animals from
miles around
I've already had seen some elephant this
morning as the boys get stuck in Carrie
makes sure that the newly laid pipe is
working and will supply the hole with
water daddy can you turn the water on
please okay put it on now for Carrie
this is an anxious moment without a
sustainable water supply there'll be
little hope of attracting animals to
this new eco lodge I'm just really
pleased that this actually works the
water in the water hole is very very
important in Sarah one it will attract
the animals to the lodges plus it will
keep them hydrated because there's a
lack of water around me at the moment so
it's very very very important Hey look
at this
this has really worked well isn't it
this is what happens Nick holding waters
up water tight this mop is gonna go back
miles on it hopefully it's a big old
pool when you look at it now animals
should like it excellent it'll take
hours for the pool to fill to the brim
and hold enough water to sustain big
game all year round
no water no animals no sustainable
venture no celebrations
you